[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I'm ready to truly live.
>>I'm from Los Angeles.
I went to Rishikesh,
my first time to India.
Since I was a kid, I've
been wanting someone
that I could call my
guru, a wise teacher.
I think we all want that.
I feel incredibly at
home in Rishikesh.
I feel deeply connected,
just at ease with meditation.
I wanted to study with
a guru, a wise Yogi.
And I found Anand.
And to my astonishment,
really, he's 27 years old
and lives in the modern world.
He rides a motorcycle.
He has an iPhone,
very well off, and has
chosen the life of a Yogi.
I studied with Anand for three
years in India and in America.
We had experiences where
afterwards I'd ask him,
I'm like, were you doing
something at that point?
Because I felt a huge shift
in my body and my energy.
And so the next day
I asked him, were you
saying something at that point?
And he's like, yeah,
I was saying a mantra
and sending it to you.
And he's like, and I
saw you receive it.
He's 27 and yet has
the wisdom of who
knows how many lifetimes.
So Anand tells me that he wants
to take this amazing journey
into the Himalayas, into
Ladakh, over the highest
road in the world, which is more
than 18,000 feet in altitude,
steep, icy cliffs, dangerous
roads, all on motorcycles.
>>This is the hardest road
you can ride your bike on.
This is not just
a bike adventure.
This is the highest
pass, the highest self.
>>Everything in me
said, holy shit.
I don't know how to ride
a bike, Himalayas, stupid.
>>I'm a crazy rider.
I've been riding bikes I
don't know for how long.
>>Never wanted to ride a bike.
I think it's dangerous.
I have no desire.
And then I thought, well,
OK, well I'm afraid of that.
I'll just say yes.
I'll just say yes now because
I want to go to The Himalayas.
And I want to be with Anand.
>>That shows some commitment
to transformation.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Fascinating, in
India, the name
for time, death, and
illusion is the same word.
It's called kala.
Kala is time.
Kala is death.
Kala is illusion.
So death is just
another name for time.
Whatever is bound
by time will die.
And whatever is beyond
time, cannot die.
For you to die, for something
to totally destruct,
it has to be bound within time.
And that's kala.
>>So we offered this
challenge to a group
of people who, unlike myself,
are experienced motorcyclers,
but who have not
studied with Anand,
other than Eric, who
met Anand in America.
>>We just get stuck
in these little boxes
of who we're supposed to be.
You become a husband.
And you have to be a
husband in a certain way.
And then you become a father.
And having children, you
have to become a certain way.
And I think a lot of times,
you lose who you are.
And now with this
trip, it's just
like my blossom of getting
out of my box of who everyone
thought I was supposed to be.
>>How can we even
live separated, so
disconnected from this?
How can we ever think that
happiness is possible,
joy is possible?
Cannot be, because
you're living in a lie,
caught up in a little box.
>>My concern would be each
person's level of preparedness
for what we're
about to experience.
Just in terms of going from
this environment, which
can be upwards of 90 degrees,
to this environment, which
could be 25 degrees,
and all those varying
stages in between.
So my concern would
be are we really
prepared for all of
those different levels
that we may encounter?
>>This is like the Mt.
Everest of biking.
This is the highest drivable
road a bike can reach.
So don't expect it to be easy.
Don't expect it to
be 10 miles an hour
and riding 50 kilometers a day.
You cannot do it.
You have chosen to be
on the highest pass.
>>The journey starts
in Rishikesh, and then
on to Manali, the
gateway to the Himalayas.
From there, it's in to a
cold no man's land, one
of the most dangerous roads in
the world, traversing mountain
passes over 18,000 feet high,
exposing silence and beauty,
and all leading us to Leh.
From there, it's over
the highest pass,
and into the hidden
Nubra Valley,
a trip totaling
2,000 kilometers.
I've been riding for
two weeks in America.
I bought a bike, and then two
weeks in India, at the most.
Next thing, highest pass.
>>It could be a big truck
trying to avoid a pothole.
And he's not going
to be looking at me.
He's going to be
looking at the pothole.
But so long as I'm
looking at that truck,
you can swerve and avoid,
and just those sorts of day
to day hazards, I
think I'll be fine.
And we as a team will be fine.
>>As soon as we took
off, I got inside.
And this truck's coming around
and taking up the whole road.
I just had enough room
between here and the dirt.
And the dirt was just a few more
feet where it was, you know,
no man's land.
>>Is that common?
People getting hit
because of the truckers?
>>They almost get hit,
it's common, almost.
That's very common.
But getting hit is not so much
because you get used to it.
So you just have
to realize that you
have to not only drive safe.
But you have to take care of
the other person's crazy driving
here.
Because those trucks don't care.
They are road killers.
>>You have to ride defensively.
>>Or aggressively.
>>Aggressive defensive.
>>Just go fast.
Just go.
Just keep going.
Don't stop.
Or just stop.
Don't do halfway.
>>They're going to the
top of the Himalayas
at 18,500 feet on a motorcycle?
I'm in.
I'm looking for a higher
purpose more than anything.
>>The sound just does
something to you.
It just makes you
clear, makes you still.
Purification occurs in stillness
because when you're still,
when the water is
still, it becomes clear.
>>So the highest pass is-- it's
just sort of unloading stuff.
Conventional mundane
society has told me
I should be married by now.
I should have children by now.
Do you see what I mean?
That's the story that
needs to be let go.
>>Our job as people
who were once children
is to come back to
our own child because
in that there is freedom.
In that, there is freedom.
In that, there is joy.
[SPEAKING HINDI]
>>At about 18, I left Canada
and was on my own in Europe.
And I was modeling in Europe.
And I was alone for the first
time away from my parents.
Everything that God gave
me through Christianity,
I wouldn't trade a
millisecond of it,
except for maybe the
judgment that I had on others
and made myself
separate and sort
of more righteous in
my mind and my heart.
>>These symbols, these
are all representing ego.
This right here, this has
to go in the fire above all,
the accumulated information.
In the yoga sutra,
Patanjali said
one of the biggest obstacles
to freedom is knowledge,
the false idea of "I know."
>>The worst thing I tell myself:
that I'm not good enough.
Before anyone was around,
I nicked a tourist's heel.
And he just reminded me that
it's not just me on the road.
Like, if I don't
have the skills,
I'm putting someone
else in danger.
And to me, I have a deep
compassion not wanting
to hurt someone else.
So that's, so--
>>It's hard to believe
that a Yogi with such
a free and adventurous
spirit would also
be carrying the burden
of ill-fated prediction
from the stars.
>>See in India, in the families
we call it a Yogic path.
They make the chart of the
child as soon as he's born.
So even the name
comes from the chart.
And I read the scroll.
And I see, what's that?
And then I go ask
one of my teachers.
They said, oh, that's the
time you're going to die.
>>So I am that age.
And I am on that journey.
If the prediction
will come true or not,
that we shall see together.
So this is like our collective
ego, collective consciousness.
You see the coconuts
representing
all the accumulated stuff.
So will you just hold
it in your hands.
And put your intention
what you want to clear,
whatever that may be
which is holding you
from your own higher self.
We all have something.
So let's not pretend
that we are all free.
So we will send
a prayer into it.
What's that which we want to
offer back into the universe?
I will pass it along.
And then we'll put it
in the fire together.
[CHANTING]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>So the tying of the yarn
acts as a physical reminder
so that our intention
and attention
unite towards the Himalayas, the
highest pass, and our highest
self.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>The first phase is three days
through the hills and towns
just to get to the
base of the Himalayas.
We travel with one
support vehicle
which carries our
supplies and our mechanic.
We'll be riding on a single
cylinder 350cc Royal Enfield
street bike.
>>All right, guys.
>>Check this out. iPod.
Volume.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>To me, it was like
going down a one way
street the wrong direction.
And everybody's coming at
you, including families
with no helmets on in sandals,
four people on a bike.
The pack had split up in
two different directions.
And there was some confusion.
I'm not going to
call it a panic mode.
But I kind of went
into safety mode.
Guys pull over.
The support vehicle, he
has to always stay with us.
>>Anand went one way.
Dean went one way.
The bikes went that way.
The last person who's the
last rider in the back,
you know, he's
watching all this--
We're having issues
this early in the trip.
I was concerned about
what other issues
we're going to have going
up the rest of the mountain.
It would be an
unpopular and unfun ride
if this kept happening.
That's all I'm saying.
And I don't want
to go through it.
You know what I mean?
>>You cannot project just
the start on the whole trip.
The journey starts now.
This is not the trip.
Now, from this point, we
are going on the journey.
>>I feel better now.
And I shouldn't have had
that extra cup of coffee.
But that's the way it is!
>>You look good in the helmet.
>>Such a rookie mistake.
And if I rush to keep
up with these guys,
totally self defeating.
So slow down, Adam.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>It's beautiful to see
the particular expression,
how the universe expresses
itself in different facets.
And with the
possibilities of growth,
possibilities of transformation.
One of them is Adam Schomer.
This journey is very
important for him.
He's no more who he used to be.
And he's not yet who
he's going to be,
which is extremely beautiful.
It's kind of a new
kid learning new ways.
>>I'm one of the
fortunate ones on the trip
because I got to come here
with one of my best friends.
I mean, it's 19 years, right on.
>>Brooks is the one
that got me on the trip.
He's one of my closest friends.
Everyone should have
a friend like Brooks.
>>Five hours into
our journey, and it's
the longest I've ever
ridden a bike at one time,
and this in 100 degree heat.
A storm comes in, and I'm
like, now that I've had fun,
now I'm, OK-- here comes
a thunderstorm and rain.
And Adam, can you ride in this?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I started getting
really fatigued and tired.
>>He didn't realize
what he was even
getting into simply because
he has not done this before.
And he doesn't even have the
right jacket for this trip.
>>There was a construction area,
a lot of rocks and boulders.
>>I saw the whole thing.
It was like a water
truck in front of us.
And Anand went around it.
He decided to make
a pass on the truck
when it was a wrong
time to do it.
The truck pinched into the left.
He put his foot down.
And then my fear was
that he was going
to go underneath the
truck completely.
>>I feel like-- I
feel like it's numb.
>>All right, so
keep the boot on.
He needs to get to the hospital
before they take it off.
>>All right, let's take him.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I was kind of in shock.
And I couldn't believe
what was going on.
And I didn't even want
to look at my foot.
I had no idea what was going--
when we took my boot off,
what was my foot
going to be like?
And was it broken in 100 pieces?
I didn't know.
There was a big
water tanker truck.
And I thought I could just
maneuver right around it.
But I was tired.
And I wasn't thinking.
And I really didn't
question, like,
oh, maybe I should just wait.
>>Yes
>>No break?
>>Woo-hoo!
>>Yeah!
>>Not broken.
>>It's just a really bad sprain.
I'm really grateful
that-- I think
I felt like I was watched over.
>>Watching that
happen with Eric,
the worst case scenario kept
playing itself over and over
in my head, going, OK well, what
if I lose focus for a second?
Or what if someone
pulls in my lane?
And I'm going to be paralyzed
for the rest of my life.
If you lose your concentration
and your focus, you will die.
>>People are afraid.
It's true.
Everyone has a fear going on.
I know I have tons of it.
Today was a 14 hour ride
covering only 260 kilometers.
>>It's too much to ask to not
be afraid, not afraid at all.
But if you can hold still,
and just breathe, and know,
and know in your heart that
you are loved And have more
love in your heart than fear.
Our love can trump the fear.
The truck is coming.
And you're just
going to the gravel.
if you just have more love in
that moment, then you're OK.
You are OK, right?
But if the fear seizes you in
panic, the mind becomes dumb.
Fear makes us dumb.
Love makes us supremely
intuitive, intelligent.
>>This morning, Eric
decides not to ride.
But his accident has helped
heighten our awareness
as we ride to the
next town, Mandi.
>>Thanks to Anand's first talk
about replacing fear with love,
I found myself battling that
line of fear and love again.
And fear was definitely winning.
I remember what I know from my
own yoga, take these superhuman
deep breaths.
And that seems to
really calm down
my nervous system for at
least six seconds or so.
>>The constant flying
down the road with trucks,
and cars, and people
coming at you,
is just really hard on
your mind and your body,
because it's that fear
of death constantly,
because a car'll come right into
you that last minute, you know,
move.
Or you have to move.
And it's just
constant, like 110%.
>>I think it was really
important for Eric
to see what has
happened, and for him
to go through it, through
his self doubt, and the fear,
and to really come out
in one piece, you know?
And to really come out strong.
>>Gotta get back
on that horse, man.
>>Anand put four fingers up.
And at that moment,
I'm like four.
I saw me, and Paul,
Mike, and Anand.
And I'm like, is
that the four that
are making the highest pass?
My next thought right then,
was, but what about Brooks?
Of course he's going to make it.
And I look in my mirror.
In my mirror, I see Brooks.
>>I just slowly start
to make my turn.
And I look in.
And all of a sudden, this
truck just shoots right out.
There's nowhere
to go on the road.
And so I realize, I'm
going to clip this guy.
Something just said
to me, jump left.
Jump left!
He hit my left handle bar.
And it went down
under the truck.
>>I heard the crack.
And I saw him tumble.
And actually like tumble
and land kind of standing.
It was like the
weirdest like pop up.
>>How did you not
go under the bumper?
>>If you go under
the bumper, you die.
>>I saw him go down.
>>As I'm sliding and tumbling,
I just see in my peripheral,
I see Eric.
>>And I was right behind him.
>>Sliding by me.
I'm like, oh, shit.
>>I'm fucking done.
Fuck this.
>>Oh my God.
>>Fuck this.
I'm fucking done.
>>Honestly, after Eric
and Brooks crashed,
there was like this feeling
of, like, this is it.
Eric's like, I'm done.
That's it.
And Brooks, one of the best
riders, get hits by a truck.
Are people going to bail?
Is it going to be done?
>>You know, every rider
knows that whenever
they get on a bike, they're
increasing their risk.
I don't want this to be the
experience that kind of puts
them over.
>>Are you fine?
>>This is going to
be a little swollen
and stiff tomorrow,
ow, yeah, right there.
>>Do we notice one similarity?
That all the three things
has happened at turns,
at these curves.
So you guys, we need to be
really aware at how we turn.
>>Well, I think, it sounds
like Brooks was aware.
That's why he's talking
to us right now.
>>As we said the first day, our
intention is we move as one.
And somebody gets hurt,
we all get hurt, right?
So we have to be
thankful as a group
that this just becomes a part
of the adventure of the ride,
and not something that keeps
us from riding, you know?
>>Seeing all these
experienced riders go down,
I really don't want
to ride right now.
But I don't have a choice.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>I really thought the
trip, in some ways,
was falling apart today.
I mean, Eric was gone.
>>Where's the next airport?
Because I'm ready.
>>He was not in his body at all.
>>I just want to go home and see
my wife, and play with my dog.
>>Holy shit, I don't
know what's coming.
>>The guy didn't even
get out of the truck.
Here it is in this hotbed of
spirituality, and awareness,
and awakening.
And this guy couldn't
even look at me
to see if my head was split
open on the side of the road.
He just had to get
the fuck out of there.
>>What I've seen
in other people,
for sure, is this rising
concern in people's faces,
especially at the end
of the day, this rising,
like, don't let us
ride in the dark again.
>>I've never had my
nervous system fire
at 100% survival mode.
My awareness is so
heightened right now
to what's coming
around that corner.
>>Spirituality starts
through humanity.
Situations like that,
you get to choose.
Be positive, or freak out
and be all dramatic about it.
And all that happened
is I hit a truck.
>>It was a moment that
he and I will certainly
share and laugh about.
I mean, he always goes to humor.
It's a beautiful thing.
It's a gift.
>>Incredible India,
it's a paradox I guess.
>>I was pulled into that feeling
of, why are we doing this?
Like, this is really crazy.
Why are we risking
all these things?
>>I really told him that he
always had the option of going.
And I would help him if
he wanted to go back.
But he didn't have to ride
the bike if he didn't want to.
But he had to stay
on the journey.
Because it was not about riding,
or proving to anybody about,
look, how powerful, or
how courageous I am.
The biggest courage is
to go beyond your mind,
to go beyond what
your mind is telling
to you, to go
beyond the familiar.
>>Why am I here, really?
It's not really about going
up and doing what we do.
It's really about in here.
And, for me, fear,
overcoming that fear,
getting in touch with
it, getting past it,
and if I did get
back on the bike,
I would just be
giving in to that.
>>There's always
this play of fear,
and conquering fear, fear,
conquering fear, fear,
conquering fear.
And I see people
doing that every day.
And people getting
over it is exactly what
I would want from this
trip, pure and simple,
just to see people grow
and get over their fears.
>>I'm going to just
chill behind you, OK?
>>Had I not had my helmet,
my protective shoulder pads,
and kneepads, and boots on
that accident that I had,
I probably wouldn't be sitting
here talking to you right now.
And I told him, I said,
it's my commitment
to make sure you
get fully geared up.
I've seen what happens
to people's heads
when even you're
doing everything right
and you slam into the pavement,
or your slam into a truck.
That'll be my little wisdom that
I'll try to pass on to Anand.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>When we started
this trip, I would
avoid thinking about
these icy mountain passes.
Even Anand has never
attempted these roads.
But now here we are, the
gateway to the Himalayas.
>>Now is the real
journey starting for us.
This is the highest
pass, Khardungla.
This road that we start
tomorrow is really
all the highest pass,
the highest drivable
road in the world.
And it doesn't end until
we get to Khardungla.
Ladakh means the land of passes.
It gets its name from this road.
The most number of
passes are on this road.
So once we cross the
first pass, Rohtang,
we are in no man's land.
We will find snow on the road.
We'll find mud
streams on the road.
We'll find muddy road.
We'll sleep at Jespa
at 10,000 feet.
And then we go up to
Baralachala at 16,500.
But this pass is still
closed, still not open.
They say they clear it,
and then it snows again.
They clear it.
And then it snows again.
Day before yesterday,
they had six feet of snow.
We will be the first riders
who are going this season.
We will be the first.
We get to clear the mood of
the highest road in the world.
But there is another option.
We can go from Manali, to
Shinagar, Kargil, and then Leh.
This is open.
And it is the easier route.
You know, intellectually
it is the safer choice.
But something keeps whispering
to me to continue on our path.
>>So this road is
the real choice.
It's the real truly living.
Either we go to safety,
or we go for it.
We risk it.
And I think it's the
choice that Anand's
been making his whole life,
carrying a prophecy that he'll
die at a certain age,
and yet still living
his life fearlessly.
>>I just pondered
and pondered on it,
to know that the time of
passing away is right here.
It kind of has a
liberating feeling to you.
It liberates you.
It really makes you honest.
Are you OK with that decision.
taking the highest
road, the highest pass?
>>Yes.
>>Oh yes.
>>Mike?
>>Yep.
>>We have to do it.
Working together, we'll have
a great time, beautiful things
we will reveal about
your own capacity.
It's just that you've
never tested yourself.
You've never allowed or given
yourself the opportunity
to reveal what
you're capable of.
You're going to be
driving through snow.
As soon as we start,
in 10, 15 kilometers,
it's going to be ice winds.
We have to be aware
not to let fear keep us
from our own capacity.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>What you will find
out about your own self
through this journey is immense,
not the adventure of it,
just the consciousness
with which we are moving.
We are moving with the mountain.
We are moving with the snow.
We are moving with the wind.
>>Today, I actually
feel like I can do it.
And that feeling
alone is a lot for me.
>>And every time
we would hit some
of this, the water and the mud,
I'd very generously tell Mike,
I'd be like, I'm totally
fine walking through.
This is not a problem.
He was like, hell no, kid.
Stay on the back!
>>Every time you
go through those,
too, your ego is
going don't fall.
Don't fall.
You don't want to be the
one person that falls.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Inevitably, the
bike starts wobbling.
I just put my foot down
like I normally would.
And that's when it hits
you, it's like, ah!
So I got this searing pain
from dealing with my foot.
And that made the climb that
much more challenging for me.
>>I got it from the
side of the road.
She goes, no, it's
for rent For rent.
And I was like, 500?
And we settled at 700.
>>No, we were clear.
>>My relationship with
Anand is very complicated.
There's this really
intense almost like battle
that I feel between our egos.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>If you've been
in this lady's hut,
it's just the most
beautiful place.
>>The rocks of jewel,
home, money, ohm.
I will let the sacred
jewel of my heart shine
forth, bring joy and light
to the world and to me.
That's the mantra of compassion.
That's the mantra you will
see in the prayer wheels.
People sit here,
and they carve them.
And then they leave.
And the most beautiful thing
you'll see, they're all unique.
And none of them has a name
on it that who wrote it,
or such and such date.
See, it's really about total
annihilation of the ego.
Somebody by chance, like
us, could come upon it
and feel at ease,
kind of remember,
again, what life is all
about, just by chance.
>>It feels like the
spiritual journey is now
really beginning.
No more distractions of
traffic or information.
It's just us, a tribe
amidst the mountains.
>>I got a lot of noise that's
going on inside my head.
And I get a lot of noise
back in Los Angeles.
And I've just
gotten so used to it
that when you start
hearing quiet, especially
beyond the bike, and
seeing the scenery,
it just takes me
to another place.
And I'm trying really, really
hard to just take all that in.
>>Oh, that was beautiful, man.
That was an awesome ride.
That was the best day yet.
It was gorgeous.
It was magical.
>>I've personally never
ridden in anything like that
ever in my life.
>>You did great.
>>And it was cool just
to, like, play on a bike.
And these things know
what they're doing.
They like it.
They like the earth.
They like the mud.
And they play with us.
>>I'm glad I'm here.
>>I'm glad you're
here too, buddy.
Glad you didn't hop on a plane.
>>There's always one of those
things where you kind of go,
I'm never going to do that.
And I've done a lot of the
never going to do thats.
And kind of the last
remaining one for me was I'm
never going to get on a bike.
This is like tough
stuff to learn on.
And I actually was
surprised how natural
it was, the gear clutch
thing on the left side.
The initial feeling was, not
I'm one of them, clearly not.
But it was like, I'm 10% one of
them, or maybe 5% one of them.
It wasn't so mysterious anymore.
It wasn't so, this is
really foreign to me
and I'm just this chick
hanging out on the back.
Wow, what an amazing
place to learn.
I think when you
have the opportunity
to push through something
and you don't, it's
much worse to get back
on a plane and go,
you didn't freaking do it.
You didn't do it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Anand can flip us right
into the highest vibration.
And that's something Anand
has done countless times
through the three years
studying with him.
He has this ability to push me
to places I wouldn't normally
go, things I
wouldn't want to do.
And I start to realize that
someone else can know me better
than myself.
And that's humbling.
>>The relationship with Adam
is of deep love and respect.
He recognizes that there are
certain things he doesn't know.
So that's the thing.
He has trust.
And that's the transformation.
And that's the big leap for him.
I think to ride here on
this journey is really--
says a lot about his deep
faith in me, and respect.
And trust in that he'll be fine.
>>So while the other riders
rest for the day in Jespa,
Anand and I travel
the 50 kilometers up
to the top of Barlachala.
It's this blocked,
dangerous pass,
to check, to see if
it's going to open.
>>It does feel like we're
kind of shedding a layer.
And now the real rawness, and
truth, and honesty part starts.
>>My first experience of
Anand was super brilliant,
could teach me a lot of things.
And I'm not feeling his heart.
Yeah, he's more here.
He's more here than here.
>>I feel separate from Anand.
That's it.
And I can't speak
for other riders.
I don't know how they feel.
And maybe that's the
way it's meant to be.
And I'm OK with that.
>>Five kilometers
before Barlachala
we encounter the
chief army engineers
that are in charge of this pass.
>>Anand decides we should go up
and see the pass for ourselves.
>>Here we got a Yogi who
has got all this wisdom,
and can teach us a lot
of things and everything.
But mechanically,
what does he know?
I thought maybe we'd be in
a little bit of trouble.
And actually I am humbled
now, because things
started coming together.
And I realized that he
knew what he was doing.
And he's one person
I can honestly
say that the qualities
he has, I would
like to take a lot
of that and model,
because he keeps
things so simple.
I don't say that
about too many people.
>>Collected at 16,000 feet,
collected at the source.
They are working there, saying
around five to six kilometers
more.
After this turn, it's
slightly thicker again.
But after five kilometer,
there is no snow.
This is the thickest.
Where we are, as you are going
up, 30 feet, 40 feet of snow.
Every pass has a temple.
But you have to request
the pass to open.
The pass is still not open.
Who knows.
A mountain might listen.
If he listens, he
might let us pass.
These are all piled by people.
Tremendous snow will
clear from this place.
All that you will
see is piles of rock.
>>Prayers peaking through.
>>People's prayers, yeah,
coming out of the snow.
When we cross this, we have to
cross it in the early morning
because as the day progresses,
the chances of avalanche
increase because the sun
beats down, and then--
>>It was right here that,
two weeks ago, an avalanche
killed 1,200 goats and one man.
>>It would be my observation of
Anand that he's a bit reckless.
To have a certain respect for
the road and the environment
is very important because
of the ripple effect
that might happen to
other people in the group.
>>There's a part of me that goes
I hope Anand doesn't convince
these guys to open it too early.
>>You know, I felt inside.
I felt a calling
that we had to go.
We had to take the. chance.
It was as if the
mountain was calling.
It was whispering for us to be
the first one to cross over it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>We're waiting
for a little bit.
I'm going to keep a clock.
We're not going to wait
more than 20 minutes.
10:37, if by 11 no word,
we can't stay anymore.
>>I don't want to stay
up here very long.
The sooner we can
roll, the better.
>>I didn't know how altitude
would affect everybody.
Having been up there
for two hours the day
before, and come down
with a throbbing headache,
I knew two hours was too long.
>>Eric is already
feeling the dizziness.
He just slid on the
ice and went down.
So he might have
somebody ride for him.
We'll see.
Hopefully he gets back on.
They're just
checking on the pass.
If I don't hear in 10
minutes, then we'll
go up because we can't
just wait for much longer.
>>Mike, Paul, and
Brooks, we went forward.
And I was the first one.
And what I see is
slush, just thick slush.
Where we were stuck was
an avalanche-prone area
because there was
just 15 feet of snow.
You look up and
just mounds of snow,
a glacier on top,
which could come down.
And sun was shining.
It could come down any moment.
So we made it through
the first obstacle.
There was snow all over.
And we somehow made it.
And I look back,
and there is no--
the three riders aren't there.
I'm just wondering.
Should I go back?
>>Well, Eric's back there.
Eric stopped.
He fell, but not bad.
He's just-- someone told
everyone that it's closed.
>>I had a hard time
turning corners.
I just feel like my
coordination is just really off.
>>If you want Rajik to ride,
then have him get on now.
>>Yeah, I think I'm
going to make the call.
>>So I had to make a decision.
So I decided I would
walk back to see
maybe these guys are closer.
And I start walking back.
I'm in this slush to my knees.
Somehow I keep walking.
And I come to the turn.
But I see there is no
sign of the riders.
And now I realize, I
can't walk to them.
My feet are floating in my
boot, probably an inch of water
beneath my feet and the shoes.
So my feet are freezing.
My whole clothes were wet.
Thankfully, by that
time I saw Adam.
And I was a little angry.
I shouted at him, hey,
you can't wait for so long
because I thought they were
just-- I was a little concerned
because it was all that area
where these guys were waiting
was all avalanche prone.
And I wanted to
get everybody out
of there as soon as possible.
As we go down, this whole
area is blocked, just blocked.
>>We're totally stopped.
We're pushing five hours
up there over 16,000 feet.
And these plows
suddenly run out of gas.
>>Because of the altitude,
everybody was slowing down.
>>I'm enjoying myself.
I'm Just a little
beat right now.
>>Once the altitude
sickness started hitting,
once the throbbing headache
hits, then you wonder,
OK, am I getting this?
And how long are we
going to be here?
Are we going to be overnight?
>>Of course the car gets stuck.
So at that point, that's
where everything seemed
to turn a little
bit to the negative
because we were helping to get
this car out the best we can.
And nobody has a shovel.
Nobody has a shovel.
Some guy pulls out a bat.
>>The whole world had changed.
People were there stuck.
And everybody was screaming.
>>And I remember just being
exhausted, just like, wow,
the air's really thin
up here, obviously.
I can't.
I don't have the energy.
And I'm sitting back on
the side of the road.
I'm watching all
these people work.
And I'm like, oh, I should help.
But it's like I
got nothing left.
>>We decide to syphon gas from
our cars to give to the plows
so they can clear our path.
>>There was no road to be seen.
I mean, it was fascinating.
There was no road.
The sun was shining.
And because of the
sun, there was the fear
of new avalanches being there.
>>Go, go, go.
>>I was wearing the helmet.
And I just felt
I was in a movie.
I didn't feel the
connection to the mountain.
So my visor, I
just threw it off.
>>I keep feeling like,
cool, we made it.
And there's exhilaration.
And then you're faced again
with another huge pile of snow.
And how do we get
through this one?
>>The water was
increasing by the minute.
>>Oh my God.
>>Whose bright idea was this?
>>And since the road
hasn't opened this season,
we don't know if the tent town
of Sarchu even exists yet.
That means we would sleep
outside in the cold.
>>So you have just walls of snow
on your left and on your right.
And I remember going
through a puddle.
And then I hit another puddle,
and then another puddle.
And then what I thought was
a puddle except it was ice.
And then I realized just
how high up we were.
>>Just in five minutes'
time, we go down.
And there is another
big, big avalanche.
There is no way bikes
are getting through it.
There is no passage.
There is a steep fall
right next to it.
>>I puked.
I guess the altitude
sickness is real.
>>When I saw Paul get
sick and start puking,
that's when the stakes
went the highest.
>>I'm trying to get
down to 14,000 feet.
>>Puking is usually, like, a
second level acute mountain
sickness.
And if he's stuck
on the mountain,
and we can't go either
way, then it's trouble.
Is Paul going to have
some serious damage?
Because we're
going to be up here
for three days at this altitude.
And there's no relief.
And what does that
do to my brain?
>>And this one looks
really hard to pass.
It's getting late.
The sun's about to set.
And I don't know.
The vans are definitely not
getting through this one.
And we have no supplies
and none of that.
>>My head was throbbing.
It felt like a vice grip was
just squeezing, squeezing,
squeezing.
There was snow and
ice on the outside.
And there was fire on
the inside with everyone.
It was just raw.
>>Stuck, as the
feeling, that's stuck.
Why are we here?
Why are the
circumstances like this?
Who chose to be here?
Who can I blame?
I'm angry.
And I'm going to blame
Anand because he's
the one that chose to come down.
We should have waited two
days until the pass was clear.
And it would have been easier.
Then a sadness sets in really
quickly because then realize
that you're not really
angry at that person.
You're just afraid.
And the only thing
you can do is just
choose: move forward
or sit in the emotions.
>>Literally eight people
pulling one bike, one by one,
one by one.
>>Finally the bikes
make it through.
But the support vehicle cannot.
So we have no choice but to
leave Eric and Arian behind.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>We arrived in Sarchu.
>>This was the
hardest ride ever.
>>As our bikes rolled
in, the sheer joy
screams and claps
from people as if we
had kind of brought
a big hope to them.
We were heroes as we drove in.
There were people who
had been waiting weeks
to get up to Barlachala.
>>When we got to the
tent site, that's
when it started to
get-- my concern then
started happening
for the trucks.
>>That's the whole Barlachala.
It's like, you're
happy for one second.
Then boom, then here
comes the next thing.
And that's life, too.
You're like, ah,
sweet, how sweet.
And then, real quick, worry
can come in if you let it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Morning.
>>And people are just
starting to get up.
And I'm going to have
some chai masala tea.
>>20 rupees each.
>>I questioned the highest
pass yesterday during the day.
>>What?
Shame on you.
>>I know, well, when the
altitude was hitting.
And it's such a-- when you can't
escape it, when you're stuck,
when you know you can't
escape the altitude,
the whole trip is
just day by day.
Just do one at a time.
>>I never felt bad
about the choices
that were made for us at all.
>>That was, undoubtedly,
the most amazing,
most life threatening, insane,
ridiculous, action-packed
adventure of my life.
>>Regardless of me feeling as
crappy as I did, I was tired.
But so were they.
>>If it wasn't for
the camaraderie of all
the other bikers, we never
would have made it through.
>>We were all going
through it and everything.
And I think that's
what made it easier.
>>Just to see people who didn't
know each other kind of coming
together for one common
mission, it was awesome.
It put my faith
back in humanity.
>>Most important, at this
altitude, is just to stay calm.
And to know that we
are all cared for.
And we are all together again.
You have each of us energy
and heart to tap into.
[CHANTING]
>>After a good rest, Eric hops
back on to his motorcycle.
But we continue to feel
the pounding headaches
and extreme fatigue
from the altitude.
The way I feel about
having done Barlachala
when we did it is that
it's not something
I would have chosen myself.
And that's where a
guide pushes you.
>>I was surprised Adam made it.
It was great to see he made it.
This is a new guy whose
kid was due in, what,
about three weeks, one month.
And he makes it through one
of the hardest riding days.
So I was really proud
of him, actually.
>>Today we traverse
mountain passes
in excess of 17,000 feet.
>>I think for the riders,
it was a great lesson
in seeing their mind go,
to see the fears come up.
And to know, at the end of
the day, that they were fine.
So it was a great
study as well, inquiry
into the nature of the
self, into the nature
of the mind, a great opportunity
given to us by the mountain.
It will be etched in every
rider's consciousness,
that Barlachala.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>So we pile rocks one
top of one another.
That's your
commitment to balance.
I go with balance.
I go with respect.
I live in balance.
That's the significance
of piling rocks
on top of one another, is
that I recognize balance,
the need for balance
in our world,
the balance between the
material and spiritual,
the balance between
the Earth and me.
>>The plan before
the highest pass
is to stop in Leh, where
we get to spend time
at ancient monasteries and visit
an oracle who can see into you.
And it's just difficult
because I want to be there.
And I have this
spiritual desire that I
have to balance with the fact
that we still have two days
to get there, two days of a real
journey across difficult roads.
>>After the really
hard day of Barlachala,
I took the chance
of taking people
to the dirt road, which for the
mind would be very challenging.
But challenges reveal
who you really are.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Hundreds of wild
horses just running,
taking off into the field
at that exact moment
when you are there.
I mean, if that's not divine
mother smiling at you, telling
you how much she loves
you, then what is?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>The rest of the day started
sliding downhill for me.
>>It was just crazy riding in
the dirt, no paths, no road,
nothing.
And it was to jump
the bike, and the bike
skidding all over the place.
It was crazy riding.
>>We'd been riding
for maybe seven hours.
And the sun was going down.
It was getting cold.
Instead of just my mind going
into fear, I just centered.
And I was just completely
present, completely
present in the moment
without fear, just let it go.
I was just one with
what was going on.
>>At that point, I didn't
want to ride behind people
and go at their pace.
I just got on the gas
and just took off.
>>That's what happens.
One moment we're in bliss.
And the next, the mind goes
to frustration and anger.
And I think we're all working
on how do we find that balance?
>>Hey, I didn't
sign up for easy.
>>You've got to
appreciate there are
other people on the trip who
are not like 100% right now.
Like poor Eric is back
there already freaked out.
And we've got him in the
middle of the night driving
on a cliff over a lake.
>>Some of the riders
came up to me,
and are like, were genuinely
like, what's going on, Adam?
Why are we arriving at night?
What is this shit, basically?
And it was the first time I had
heard from a few people where
they were concerned
about leadership.
The mind looks for
something to blame.
But the fact is, this
is the only place
we can stay for 100 kilometers.
I woke up in the middle of
the night at one o'clock.
And I'm steaming hot.
My stomach hurt,
completely sick feeling.
My head was pounding.
And I couldn't really breathe.
And everything future
was coming up for me,
in terms of how am I-- I
just got to get to Leh.
I just got to get to Leh.
And how am I going
to ride tomorrow?
And so I just stepped back, went
outside, looked at the stars
and started breathing.
And just got my breath back.
And for me, it was a
big, big turning point
of just really coming
to that breath.
>>Your physical body
will react the first.
And then your thoughts
start to follow.
And then what happens, it
start to, like, magnify.
Even a little thing,
starts to magnify it.
We are stuck in the mountains.
It starts to get dark.
And the mind can
go in that moment.
Like, where the hell are we?
Turn it over to your prana,
and you can balance your prana.
And the mind and the
body will follow.
Being in nature right
now is so calming
if you're not in your mind.
It calms you down, because
there is no thought there.
There is just pure
expression of prana.
And if you can connect
to our own prana,
and unite it with
this, we are free.
Then what happens is you
become free of circumstance.
It was just fascinating to see
everybody was feeling fine now.
There was nobody having
a headache anymore.
There was no throwing
up, no I need oxygen.
Just a great thing even
for me as an individual
to see the shift that
can occur in moments.
And in that moment, it was just
amazing to see the willingness.
And since they were
willing, transformation
happened just like that.
And even the water followed.
There was this
calmness in the water.
And all of us around the lake
had become more beautiful
and the mountains
and the weather.
Satsanga it's called.
In Sanskrit we call it satsanga,
meaning community of truth.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>We travel as one to
face our inner demons.
Entering the capital of
this mystical region, Leh.
Known for tantric
Buddhism, which
recognizes that the spiritual
and meditative life is not
always so peaceful.
In the beginning, it's intense.
And as Anand says, you
have to go to the fire
to come out gold.
Everybody was more
aligned and centered.
And I think knowing,
or at least prepared
for, like this
transformation in themselves,
this real challenge
in themselves
that they're all have now
been physically put through,
and now are ready
to jump into further
and deeper inside themselves.
>>When you ask human beings,
are you afraid of death?
Most of the people say they
are not because ego cannot
understand death.
So we are always in
denial, because even when
we think about our death,
we kind of survive it.
But when it knocks
at your door, that's
when fear grips
you by the throat.
But in that knocking, there is
also this immense possibility
of liberation, of
immense freedom.
But thankfully, also,
I've had teachers
who have taught me to go
beyond it, the five sensory,
physical label of what it means.
Only when she goes
into a trance does she
start speaking in
Tibetan language
because they say that
the spirits which
channel through
her is from Tibet,
from the land of the Dalai Lama.
>>She caught the guy
before us in a lie.
She could see into him.
His liver was wilting.
She sucked the demons out.
>>And then my question
was, will I have children?
And what will the
mother be like?
>>I respect her answer
because, yeah, I
guess it is a
question of the mind.
>>I do find it funny,
though, in a country where
the most important thing is
marriage and having children,
where all of India is really
about that, that she shuts you
down.
>>Before any ceremony, before
any big step Dalai Lama takes,
he has his own state oracle
who tells him which way to go.
>>I had no question
for the oracle.
I just, in my head,
asked to hear whatever
would help me the
most on my journey.
>>Have you seen something?
>>I definitely felt she
could see right into me.
>>You are a good, lucky man.
>>It helped me connect back to
my heart, to that part of me
I know is so strong.
>>It's important to not
try and intellectually
comprehend everything that
she said, or make sense of it.
The mysticism of it is lost.
The beauty is lost.
>>Anand didn't even ask
about his prediction.
>>I think that's the
thing with humanity.
Before we try and
understand, we jump.
We want to understand it
before we fall in love with it.
It's important to just
get in love deeper
and then understanding
will reveal itself.
>>Lamayuru, the oldest
monastery in Ladak.
This building that's
standing is made on a rock
without any foundation.
And the walls are tilted
so that they don't fall.
They're made with mud, and rock,
and timber, still standing.
I brought them here
so that they could
have a deeper experience,
not just an adventure,
but also have this time
to center in themselves
as we take off for the highest
pass day after tomorrow,
and have this thousand year old
place whisper into their ears
words of wisdom.
And fascinating that it's
just us, nobody here.
If that's not magic, what is?
This was the route to
come to Leh through here.
This was the monastery they
would first come, and visit,
and pray.
So thousands of pilgrims
have passed through here.
And one of the greatest
teachers of Buddhism, Naropa,
he came here in 10th
century and meditated.
>>So for me, it's
really important
to be able to come
to places like this,
and as the oracle said
yesterday, to go deeper.
And so I listen to that.
To go deeper, and go deeper,
and go deeper in this place,
I'm sure, will help.
>>Take this moment
to allow yourself
deep realizations of obstacles
that you have transcended,
of passes within your own
psyche that you have crossed.
From the moment you
chose, you decided
to come on this journey.
[DRUMMING]
>>And as I go deeper,
underneath the emotions,
underneath the
angers, and the hates,
when we slash down and go
below those, what remains
is this deep sense of gratitude
for my teacher for getting us
this far, for leading us,
and for all the teachers
that have come before
him and have passed down
all these teachings.
And you can feel it here.
>>When fear sets in, and
you get really scared,
that's the first
thing you think about.
Just the safety of your
family, being with your family,
and how much you miss them.
And that desire to just go
there into that safety net,
and to be with them, and
just be in their love,
it was almost
dangerous to the mind.
And after a while,
I just realized
that it was dangerous for me.
I love them.
And they're the most
beautiful thing in my life.
But I found that it was almost
keeping me down, that thought.
Instead of loving
them, and wanting
to be with them out
of fear, now I'm
just wanting to be with
them out of just pure love.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>We're coming to
this right hand turn.
And you could see this
black like in the line
of the middle of our
lane and everything.
But nobody knew it was oil.
He turned his
handlebars to the right,
and it just didn't stick.
And it just washed out.
And he went down.
And he was riding
on top of the iron.
You could tell he was shocked.
It caught him off guard.
Oh my God.
Anand just went down.
It was just like, holy crap.
>>Brooks had asked me two,
three times, saying, well,
I want you safe-- to be safe.
Why won't you wear the gear?
In the morning, I was packing,
but then the gear wouldn't fit.
I said, you know what?
I'll just wear them.
So divine mother is very kind.
>>Paul's like, going, dude, can
I borrow your pants tomorrow
with the pads in it?
You know, Anand's all
messed up and everything.
And I'm thinking, oh, do you
think we could take care of him
first?
We'll talk about tomorrow.
>>One thing I like about the
helmet that I had yesterday on,
it said in the
back, crazy grace.
>>It's all broken.
The top is broken.
>>No way.
>>The top of your
helmet's broken.
>>So I think it was
crazy grace yesterday.
>>When Adam came up and he saw.
And he's like, oh, you're OK.
You're not hurt.
>>I said, yeah, the prophecy's
not about me getting hurt.
It's about me dying.
The biggest gratitude was it
was me and not any other riders
because we don't want that
before the highest pass.
We want all the riders there.
>>Had Anand not worn his helmet,
he probably would have died.
So that's bringing
death right back
to the forefront of our minds.
At the same time,
we realize just how
divinely protected we've
been this whole trip.
>>The highest drivable road
in the world is within us.
All this journey
is to realize that.
>>The last experience
with the pass
was just really scary
for me, for everyone,
so-- A big part of me says,
yeah, go up in the car.
You've done great stuff.
You could go up in the car.
But I want to do it.
I definitely want to do it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>We traverse over 7,000
feet in only 50 kilometers
to reach Khardungla.
And then it's into
the Nubra Valley.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Here I am on the
highest pass, nearing
the pinnacle of this
road, the highest road.
And I find myself still
trying to keep up,
still falling, and
still getting angry
because of the falls
because I'm not keeping up.
These old patterns are
still controlling me.
>>Just need to catch
my breath for a sec.
>>I saw in him that he
wasn't doing his 100%.
I purposely didn't say
anything to him in that moment.
It was important for
him to go into himself
and find that strength because
he knows enough information.
He has enough wisdom.
And we have shared enough
time and space together.
And he has the right to the
consciousness which I carry.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>After nearly 2,000
kilometers, 15 days on the road,
we finally reach
the highest pass.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>The inner journey's important.
But there's a big
part of me that
did want to say I made it, that
I didn't give in to my fears,
that I kept pushing.
Because there's that
part of me that did
believe I could make it.
>>I'm a little
overwhelmed with gratitude
because I didn't think
I would do it on a bike.
>>Connecting with
the whole team when
we're on top of the
mountain, like, guys,
look at that, 18,300 feet.
>>I know that years
are going to go by,
and I'm gonna look back on
this being one of the greatest
adventures that I've
ever been involved in.
>>Despite all the
setbacks and accidents,
we really came together as one
to make it here to the top.
But ultimately, it's an
incredibly personal journey.
And I realize that amidst
all this chaos, the hugeness,
the unknowing, that inside
there's a deep, deep faith,
that regardless of
the circumstance,
I'll always come through.
And that knowing will
stay with me forever.
>>After what we've
been through, there's
no ceiling on what
we can do as people.
>>I am a lot stronger
than I thought I was,
and a lot more capable
of overcoming and not
turning back.
>>You don't get to
realize it until you've
pushed yourself and explored.
>>You know, I'm just-- I'm very
present to the absence of fear.
Like Anand says,
well, you can't have
fear and faith in
the same bucket.
>>I think going back to
the states and everything,
I just have-- I'm in a
different state of mind
in terms of release and control.
I'm confident it's one
of those experiences that
will stay with me
for a very long time.
>>Sharing this incredible
experience with us
has been a tremendous journey.
It's been the most outrageous,
life-threatening, insane,
blissful, audacious
adventure that I've had.
>>The intention is fulfilled.
The riders have gotten
deeper into themselves.
>>The beginning of the trip was
all about teachings from Anand.
And so I heard them.
And they landed.
>>There was a sense of him kind
of, like, being way out there.
And everyone kind of like
struggling to keep up,
feeling uncertain,
all those things.
>>And the second
half of the trip
was all about
connection with Anand.
>>There's a greater
sense of unity.
>>I feel him.
I see him.
I see the beautiful desire to
actually share this experience
and give to us.
>>He really lives
what he spoke about.
>>I'm going to be
a mess when I have
to say goodbye to everyone.
That's what I feel.
>>I really plan on sitting
down and talking with my sons,
and sharing a lot
of the philosophy
that he has to make
them better people.
Go into their lives
fearlessly and enjoy it
as much as they can.
]
>>I am still here.
So through awareness, we
can transform everything.
But the fact is we all have a
prophecy to die that is coming.
So how are we going to
live with that awareness
every movement, every
breath, every step?
How are we going to choose
to live, to stand, to be
in our heart?
Who are we?
And what are we living for?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>Adam is a very sincere
walker, a sincere rider,
a sincere being.
I think it's been a big
coming of age for him,
to get on a bike you have never
ridden, to go and do this,
and kind of stepping into a new
him, which is more true him.
>>So it's important to
really ask ourselves,
and myself, what I really need.
And not from a fear place.
What motivates me?
What's that inner source that's
left that pulls one through?
That's a good question.
>>This journey marks
like a full circle.
It's written out
there that it marks
my full circle of my
own journey with death,
a total death, and
a new, new birth.
I'm in love more.
I cannot say it enough.
>>Finding that love that
leads us to truly living,
it's worth the risk.
[MUSIC PLAYING]